# SSH Access to Windows Shell Setup #

## Password and Username ##
look up your username and set your password

## open the port 22 and the required port (8888) ##

1. Navigate to Control Panel, System and Security and Windows Firewall.
2. Select Advanced settings and highlight Inbound Rules in the left pane.
3. Right click Inbound Rules and select New Rule.
4. Add the port you need to open and click Next, for me the 22 port
5. Add the protocol (TCP or UDP) and the port number into the next window and click Next.
6. Select Allow the connection in the next window and hit Next.
7. Select the network type as you see fit and click Next.
8. Name the rule something meaningful and click Finish.

## ensure the OpenSSH client and server installed and running ##

[Official Guideline](https://docs.microsoft.com/zh-cn/windows-server/administration/openssh/openssh_install_firstuse)

Caution! These steps are required Administrator access

## Problem ##

cannot change disk on the ssh access to the windows, eg "cd d:\" not works  
guess: ssh or 22 port not access to other disks

solution: change the jupyter default workplace to "d:/workplace"

Or: launch jupyter with object dir

last solution: **IN CMD**, use cd /d d:\ to change the disk

## login without password ##

> with pub key passed to the server, the private key in the client

1. create a new pair of keys
```bash
ssh-keygen -t -rsa -C "your email" -f ~/.ssh/id_rsa
```

2. create a new config target in the ~/.ssh/config
3. pass the id_rsa.pub generated by 1 to the server
```bash
ssh-copy-id -i .ssh/id_rsa.pub username@serverip
```
4. change the modify right of the ssh for ssh server checking the file

not solved: maybe the access of ssh to files is not available.
